
Competing risks with nested data THOMAS HAS CODE
adapted calibration curve
Predictions showing impact of additional test
Prediction models depend on current/previous treatment assignment
Predictions conditional on the treatment that we currently decide about
Does causal inference result in a more accurate prediction model? Can we correct for treatment assignment and make tool more accurate?
Improving existing prediction models using by adjusting for trends over time, like year of treatment. Hidden issues with contemporary prediction models
Prediction models always based on historic data.
Need to model difference between new and old patients based on covariates not in models, based on treatment assignment and treatment effects.
Calendar year is perfect predictor and MI is the ideal outcome
what form of extrapolation would have worked best for us years ago.
Predictions are valid after decision already made
We want a tool that predicts given you haven’t already decided.
Interaction between treatment and variable left out of the model.
Can improve upon conditional outcome model
HOW TO PREDICT THE OUTCOME(S) OF A TREATMENT THAT IS NOT YET ADMINISTERED AND NOT RANDOMLY ASSIGNED.
Motivated by 8a and 8b
We investigate when and whether it is important to consider the treatment assignment
HOW TO ADJUST FOR CALENDAR YEAR EFFECTS

Income predicts treatment choice and outcome success probability.
?need to have interactions between outcome and all interveneable variable



This is for setting where predictions are provided for at least 2 treatment strategies.
All models are miss-edified.
We need to know the reason why in order to provide the fix.
important variable(s) not measured.
Important variable measured but not included.
Wrong paramerization.
Cohort not representative of population of interest for target application
All models are out of date.
Treatments have improved.
treatment assignment was not modeled
dropout and other forms of noncompliance are not considered
Time dependent covariates need to be included in censoring adjustment
